SameSiite (#15618)
aspnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/security/samesite.md

  * The `OpenIdConnect` correlation.
  * `nonce` cookies.

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

Each ASP.NET Core component that emits cookies need to decide if `SameSite` is appropriate. ASP.NET Core 3.0 and later aligns SameSite defaults with the new draft standard. The following API's have changed the default from `SameSiteMode.Lax ` to `SameSiteMode.None`:

* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieOptions> used with [HttpContext.Response.Cookies.Append](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IResponseCookies.Append*)
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieBuilder>  used as a factory for `CookieOptions`
* [CookiePolicyOptions.MinimumSameSitePolicy](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.CookiePolicyOptions.MinimumSameSitePolicy)

ALL ASP.NET Core components that emit cookies:

* Override the preceding defaults with settings appropriate for their scenarios.
* The overridden preceding default values have not changed.

| Component | Default |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| <xref:System.Web.HttpContext.Session>  | `Lax` |
| <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ViewFeatures.CookieTempDataProvider>   | `Lax` |

> | `Antiforgery` | `Strict` |

Author: @serpent5  do you know what this and the next 4 components are?

Reviewer: 1.  [`IAntiforgery`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.antiforgery.iantiforgery) or [`AntiforgeryOptions.Cookie`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.antiforgery.antiforgeryoptions.cookie)
1. [`AddCookie`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection.cookieextensions.addcookie) or [`CookieAuthenticationOptions.Cookie`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.authentication.cookies.cookieauthenticationoptions.cookie#Microsoft_AspNetCore_Authentication_Cookies_CookieAuthenticationOptions_Cookie)
1. [`AddTwitter`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection.twitterextensions.addtwitter) or [`TwitterOptions.StateCookie`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.authentication.twitter.twitteroptions.statecookie#Microsoft_AspNetCore_Authentication_Twitter_TwitterOptions_StateCookie)
1. [`RemoteAuthenticationHandler`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.authentication.remoteauthenticationhandler-1) or [`RemoteAuthenticationOptions.CorrelationCookie`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.authentication.remoteauthenticationoptions.correlationcookie).
1. [`AddOpenIdConnect`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection.openidconnectextensions.addopenidconnect) or [`OpenIdConnectOptions.NonceCookie`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.authentication.openidconnect.openidconnectoptions.noncecookie#Microsoft_AspNetCore_Authentication_OpenIdConnect_OpenIdConnectOptions_NonceCookie)

---
title: SameSite
author: rick-anderson
description: Learn how to react to SameSite changes in ASP.NET Core
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 11/11/2019
uid: security/samesite
---
# React to SameSite changes in ASP.NET Core

By [Rick Anderson](https://twitter.com/RickAndMSFT)

The [SameSite 2016 draft](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-west-first-party-cookies-07) states:

>   This document updates [RFC6265](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6265) by defining a `SameSite` attribute which allows servers to assert that a cookie ought not to be sent

Reviewer 2: This doesn't render any differently than the paragraph after it. Add quotes?

---
title: SameSite
author: rick-anderson
description: Learn how to use to SameSite cookies in ASP.NET Core
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 11/11/2019
uid: security/samesite
---
# Working with SameSite cookies in ASP.NET Core

By [Rick Anderson](https://twitter.com/RickAndMSFT)

[SameSite](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-west-first-party-cookies-07) is an [IETF](https://ietf.org/about/) draft designed to provide some protection against cross-site request forgery (CSRF) attacks. The [SameSite 2019 draft](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-west-cookie-incrementalism-00):

* Treats cookies as `SameSite=Lax` by default.
* States cookies that explicitly assert `SameSite=None` in order to enable cross-site delivery should be marked as `Secure`.

`Lax` works for most app cookies. Some forms of authentication like [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/connect/) (OIDC) and [WS-Federation](https://auth0.com/docs/protocols/ws-fed) default to POST based redirects. The POST based redirects trigger the SameSite browser protections, so SameSite is disabled for these components. Most [OAuth](https://oauth.net/) logins are not affected due to differences in how the request flows.

> The `None` parameter causes compatibility problems with clients that implemented the prior 2016 draft standard (for example, iOS 12). See #Supporting-Older-Browsers.

Reviewer 2: Actual href to supporting older browsers.

| [Cookie Authentication](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.CookieExtensions.AddCookie*) | [CookieAuthenticationOptions.Cookie](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.CookieAuthenticationOptions.CookieName) | `Lax` |
| <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.TwitterExtensions.AddTwitter*> | [TwitterOptions.StateCookie ](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.Twitter.TwitterOptions.StateCookie) | `Lax`  |
| <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.RemoteAuthenticationHandler`1> | [RemoteAuthenticationOptions.CorrelationCookie](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.RemoteAuthenticationOptions.CorrelationCookie)  | `None` |
| <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.OpenIdConnectExtensions.AddOpenIdConnect*> | [OpenIdConnectOptions.NonceCookie](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect.OpenIdConnectOptions.NonceCookie)| `None` |
| [HttpContext.Response.Cookies.Append](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IResponseCookies.Append*) | <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieOptions> | `Unspecified` |

> ## APIs impacted by the change from the 2016 SameSite draft standard to the 2019 draft standard

Reviewer 2: Please move this section into the History and changes section, just above Supporting older browsers

* [Http.SameSiteMode](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.SameSiteMode)
* [CookieOptions.SameSite](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieOptions.SameSite)
* [CookieBuilder.SameSite](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieBuilder.SameSite)
* [CookiePolicyOptions.MinimumSameSitePolicy](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.CookiePolicyOptions.MinimumSameSitePolicy)
* <xref:Microsoft.Net.Http.Headers.SameSiteMode?displayProperty=fullName>
* <xref:Microsoft.Net.Http.Headers.SetCookieHeaderValue.SameSite?displayProperty=fullName>

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.1"

ASP.NET Core 3.1 and later provides the following SameSite support:

* Redefines the behavior of `SameSiteMode.None` to emit `SameSite=None`
* Adds a new value `SameSiteMode.Unspecified` to omit the SameSite attribute.
* All cookies APIs default to `Unspecified`. Some components that use cookies set values more specific to their scenarios. See the table above for examples.

>   * The `OpenIdConnect` correlation cookie.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>   * [OpenIdConnectOptions.NonceCookie](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect.OpenIdConnectOptions.NonceCookie)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

> ASP.NET Core 3.0 and later aligns SameSite defaults with the new draft standard. The following APIs have changed the default from `SameSiteMode.Lax ` to `-1`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In ASP.NET Core 3.0 and later the SameSite defaults were changed to avoid conflicting with inconsistent client defaults. The following APIs have changed the default from `SameSiteMode.Lax ` to `-1` to avoid emitting a SameSite attribute for these cookies:
```

---
title: SameSite
author: rick-anderson

> description: Learn how to react to SameSite changes in ASP.NET Core

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to use to SameSite cookies in ASP.NET Core
```

ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 11/11/2019
uid: security/samesite
---

> # React to SameSite changes in ASP.NET Core

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Working with SameSite cookies in ASP.NET Core
```

By [Rick Anderson](https://twitter.com/RickAndMSFT)

[SameSite](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-west-first-party-cookies-07) is an [IETF](https://ietf.org/about/) draft designed to provide some protection against cross-site request forgery (CSRF) attacks. The [SameSite 2019 draft](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-west-cookie-incrementalism-00):

* Treats cookies as `SameSite=Lax` by default.

> * States cookies that explicitly assert `SameSite=None` in order to enable cross-site delivery should be marked as `Secure`. `None` is a new entry to opt out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* States cookies that explicitly assert `SameSite=None` in order to enable cross-site delivery should be marked as `Secure`.
```

> `Lax` works for most app cookies. Some forms of authentication like [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/connect/) (OIDC) and [WS-Federation](https://auth0.com/docs/protocols/ws-fed) default to POST based redirects. The POST based redirects trigger the SameSite browser protections, so SameSite is disabled for these components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Lax` works for most app cookies. Some forms of authentication like [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/connect/) (OIDC) and [WS-Federation](https://auth0.com/docs/protocols/ws-fed) default to POST based redirects. The POST based redirects trigger the SameSite browser protections, so SameSite is disabled for these components. Most [OAuth](https://oauth.net/) logins are not affected due to differences in how the request flows.
```

> Most [OAuth](https://oauth.net/) logins are not affected due to differences in how the request flows. The new `None` parameter causes compatibility problems with clients that implemented the prior draft standard (for example, iOS 12).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `None` parameter causes compatibility problems with clients that implemented the prior 2016 draft standard (for example, iOS 12). See #Supporting-Older-Browsers.
```

Each ASP.NET Core component that emits cookies needs to decide if SameSite is appropriate.

## API usage with SameSite

> [HttpContext.Response.Cookies.Append](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IResponseCookies.Append*) defaults to `Unspecified`. The following code shows how to change the SameSite cookie to `SameSiteMode.Lax`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[HttpContext.Response.Cookies.Append](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IResponseCookies.Append*) defaults to `Unspecified`, meaning no SameSite attribute added to the cookie and the client will use its default behavior (Lax for new browsers, None for old ones). The following code shows how to change the cookie SameSite value to `SameSiteMode.Lax`:
```

[!code-csharp[](samesite/sample/Pages/Index.cshtml.cs?name=snippet)]

All ASP.NET Core components that emit cookies override the preceding defaults with settings appropriate for their scenarios. The overridden preceding default values haven't changed.

| Component | cookie | Default |
| ------------- | ------------- |

> | <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieBuilder> | <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieBuilder.Name> | `None` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieBuilder> | <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieBuilder.SameSite> | `Unspecified` |
```

> | <xref:System.Web.HttpContext.Session>  | [SessionOptions.Cookie](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.SessionOptions.Cookie) |`Lax` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpContext.Session>  | [SessionOptions.Cookie](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.SessionOptions.Cookie) |`Lax` |
```

| <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.ViewFeatures.CookieTempDataProvider>  | [CookieTempDataProviderOptions.Cookie](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.CookieTempDataProviderOptions.Cookie) | `Lax` |
| <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Antiforgery.IAntiforgery> | [AntiforgeryOptions.Cookie](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Antiforgery.AntiforgeryOptions.Cookie)| `Strict` |

> | [CookieExtensions.AddCookie](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.CookieExtensions.AddCookie*) | [CookieAuthenticationOptions.Cookie](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.CookieAuthenticationOptions.CookieName) | `Lax` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [Cookie Authentication](xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.CookieExtensions.AddCookie*) | [CookieAuthenticationOptions.Cookie](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.CookieAuthenticationOptions.CookieName) | `Lax` |
```

| <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.TwitterExtensions.AddTwitter*> | [TwitterOptions.StateCookie ](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.Twitter.TwitterOptions.StateCookie) | `Lax`  |
| <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.RemoteAuthenticationHandler`1> | [RemoteAuthenticationOptions.CorrelationCookie](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.RemoteAuthenticationOptions.CorrelationCookie)  | `None` |
| <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.OpenIdConnectExtensions.AddOpenIdConnect*> | [OpenIdConnectOptions.NonceCookie](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect.OpenIdConnectOptions.NonceCookie)| `None` |

> | <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieOptions> | A default cookie with a path of '/' | `None` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [HttpContext.Response.Cookies.Append](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IResponseCookies.Append*) | <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieOptions> | `Unspecified` |
```

> ## APIs impacted by the SameSite 2019 draft standard

Reviewer 2: This section is part of History and changes, just before Supporting older browsers
```suggestion
## APIs impacted by the change from the 2016 SameSite draft standard to the 2019 draft standard
```

* [Http.SameSiteMode](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.SameSiteMode)
* [CookieOptions.SameSite](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieOptions.SameSite)
* [CookieBuilder.SameSite](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieBuilder.SameSite)
* [CookiePolicyOptions.MinimumSameSitePolicy](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.CookiePolicyOptions.MinimumSameSitePolicy)
* <xref:Microsoft.Net.Http.Headers.SameSiteMode?displayProperty=fullName>
* <xref:Microsoft.Net.Http.Headers.SetCookieHeaderValue.SameSite?displayProperty=fullName>

> ::: moniker range="= aspnetcore-3.1"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.1"
```

ASP.NET Core 3.1 and later provides the following SameSite support:

* Redefines the behavior of `SameSiteMode.None` to emit `SameSite=None`
* Adds a new value `SameSiteMode.Unspecified` to omit the SameSite attribute.

> * All cookies APIs default to `Unspecified`. Some components that use cookies set values more specific to their scenarios, for example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* All cookies APIs default to `Unspecified`. Some components that use cookies set values more specific to their scenarios. See the table above for examples.
```
Examples here are redundant.

  * The `OpenIdConnect` correlation cookie.
  * [OpenIdConnectOptions.NonceCookie](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect.OpenIdConnectOptions.NonceCookie)

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-3.0"

> ASP.NET Core 3.0 and later aligns SameSite defaults with the new draft standard. The following APIs have changed the default from `SameSiteMode.Lax ` to `SameSiteMode.None`:

Reviewer 2: The 3.0.1 patch changed these again from None to `(-1)`. Do you want to call that out separately or squash them to say the default changed from Lax to (-1)?

* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieOptions> used with [HttpContext.Response.Cookies.Append](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IResponseCookies.Append*)
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.CookieBuilder>  used as a factory for `CookieOptions`
* [CookiePolicyOptions.MinimumSameSitePolicy](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.CookiePolicyOptions.MinimumSameSitePolicy)

::: moniker-end

## History and changes

SameSite support was first implemented in ASP.NET Core in 2.0 using the [2016 draft standard](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-west-first-party-cookies-07#section-4.1). The 2016 standard was opt-in. ASP.NET Core opted-in by setting several cookies to `Lax` by default. After encountering several [issues](https://github.com/aspnet/Announcements/issues/318) with authentication, most SameSite usage was [disabled](https://github.com/aspnet/Announcements/issues/348).

> The [2019 draft of the SameSite specification](https://github.com/aspnet/Announcements/issues/390):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Patches were issued in November 2019 to update from the 2016 standard to the 2019 standard. The [2019 draft of the SameSite specification](https://github.com/aspnet/Announcements/issues/390):
```

* Is **not** backwards compatible with the 2016 draft. For more information, see [Supporting older browsers](#sob) in this document.
* Specifies cookies are treated as `SameSite=Lax` by default.
* Specifies cookies that explicitly assert `SameSite=None` in order to enable cross-site delivery should be marked as `Secure`. `None` is a new entry to opt out.
* Is supported by patches issued for ASP.NET Core 2.1, 2.2, and 3.0. ASP.NET Core 3.1 has additional SameSite support.

> * Is scheduled to be supported by [Chrome](https://chromestatus.com/feature/5088147346030592) by default in [Feb 2020](https://blog.chromium.org/2019/10/developers-get-ready-for-new.html). Browsers started moving to this standard in 2019.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Is scheduled to be enabled by [Chrome](https://chromestatus.com/feature/5088147346030592) by default in [Feb 2020](https://blog.chromium.org/2019/10/developers-get-ready-for-new.html). Browsers started moving to this standard in 2019.
```
